[IMP] inventory: update serial numbers doc (#3865)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/management/lots_serial_numbers/serial_numbers.rst

===============================

Once the :guilabel:`Lots & Serial Numbers` setting has been activated, individual products can now
be configured to be tracked using serial numbers. To do this, go to :menuselection:`Inventory -->
Products --> Products`, and choose a product. Once on the product form, click the
:guilabel:`Inventory` tab.

To track this product using serial numbers, click :guilabel:`Edit`, and under the
:guilabel:`Traceability` section, click :guilabel:`By Unique Serial Number`. :guilabel:`Save`
changes. Existing or new serial numbers can now be selected and assigned to newly-received or
manufactured batches of this product.

.. image:: serial_numbers/serial-numbers-product-tracking.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enabled serial number tracking on product form.

Create new serial numbers for products already in stock
-------------------------------------------------------

New serial numbers can be created for products already in stock with no assigned serial number. To
do this, go to :menuselection:`Inventory --> Products --> Lots/Serial Numbers`, and click
:guilabel:`Create`. A new :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` will be generated automatically.

.. tip::

>     Although Odoo automatically generates a new :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` to follow the most
>     recent number, it can be edited and changed to be whatever number is desired by clicking the
>     line under the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` field and changing the generated number.

Reviewer: Rephrase and fix indentation
```suggestion
   Although Odoo automatically generates a new serial number to follow the most
   recent number, it can be changed to whatever number is desired by clicking the
   line under the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` field and editing the generated number.
```

After the new serial number has been created and assigned to the desired product, navigate back to
the product form by going to :menuselection:`Products --> Products`, and selecting the product the
new serial number was just assigned to. Click the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Numbers` smart button to
see the new serial number.

Manage serial numbers for shipping and receiving
================================================

Manage serial numbers on receipts
---------------------------------

Assigning serial numbers to *incoming* goods can be done directly from the purchase order. To
create a purchase order, go to the :menuselection:`Purchase app --> Create` to create a new Request
for Quotation (RFQ). Then, fill out the information by adding a :guilabel:`Vendor`, and by adding
products to the :guilabel:`Product` lines by clicking :guilabel:`Add a product`. Choose the desired
quantity to order by changing the number in the :guilabel:`Quantity` column.

Click :guilabel:`Confirm Order`. This will convert the :abbr:`RFQ (Request for Quotation)` to a
:guilabel:`Purchase Order`. Click the :guilabel:`Receipt` smart button to be taken to the
:guilabel:`Warehouse Receipt Form`.

> .. note::
>     Clicking :guilabel:`Validate` before assigning a serial number to the ordered product
>     quantities will cause a :guilabel:`User Error` popup to appear. The popup requires entry of a
>     lot or serial number for the ordered products. The :abbr:`RFQ (Request for Quotation)` cannot
>     be validated without a serial number being assigned.

Reviewer: Fix indentation
```suggestion
.. note::
   Clicking :guilabel:`Validate` before assigning a serial number to the ordered product
   quantities will cause a :guilabel:`User Error` popup to appear. The popup requires entry of a
   lot or serial number for the ordered products. The :abbr:`RFQ (Request for Quotation)` cannot
   be validated without a serial number being assigned.
```

   :align: center
   :alt: List of serial numbers copied in Excel spreadsheet.

.. tip::
    For purchase orders that include large quantities of products to receive, the best method of
    serial number assignment is to automatically assign serial numbers using the
    :guilabel:`Assign Serial Numbers` button. This will prevent any serial numbers from being
    reused or duplicated, and improves traceability reporting.

Once all product quantities have been assigned a serial number, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to close
the popup, and click :guilabel:`Validate`. A :guilabel:`Traceability` smart button will appear upon
validating the receipt. Click the :guilabel:`Traceability` smart button to see the updated
:guilabel:`Traceability Report`, which includes: a :guilabel:`Reference` document; the
:guilabel:`Product` being traced; the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial #`; and more.

Manage serial numbers on delivery orders
----------------------------------------

Assigning serial numbers to *outgoing* goods can be done directly from the sales order. To create a
sales order, go to the :guilabel:`Sales` app, and click :guilabel:`Create` to create a new

> quotation. Then, fill out the information by adding a :guilabel:`Customer`, and by adding products
> to the :guilabel:`Product` lines by clicking :guilabel:`Add a product`. Choose the desired quantity

Reviewer: Rephrase
```suggestion
quotation. Then, fill out the form by specifying a :guilabel:`Customer` and adding products
 using the :guilabel:`Add a product` button. Choose the desired quantity
```

to sell by changing the number in the :guilabel:`Quantity` column.

Once the quotation has been filled out, click :guilabel:`Confirm`. When the quotation is confirmed,
it will become a :guilabel:`Sales Order`, and a :guilabel:`Delivery` smart button will appear.
Click the :guilabel:`Delivery` smart button to be taken to the warehouse delivery form.

From here, click the :guilabel:`Additional Options` menu (hamburger) icon, and a
:guilabel:`Detailed Operations` popup will appear. A :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` will be chosen
by default, with each product of the total :guilabel:`Reserved` quantity listed with their unique

> serial numbers (most likely listed in sequential order). To manually change a product's serial

Reviewer: Why most likely? Should we specify the cases in which this does not happen?

> number, click the :guilabel:`drop-down` under :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`, and choose (or type)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
number, click the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` drop-down and choose (or type)
```

> the desired serial number. Then, mark the :guilabel:`Done` quantities, and click

Reviewer: Remove comma
```suggestion
the desired serial number. Then, mark the :guilabel:`Done` quantities and click
```

:guilabel:`Confirm` to close the popup. Finally, click :guilabel:`Validate` to deliver the products.

.. image:: serial_numbers/serial-numbers-detailed-operations-popup.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Serial numbers listed in detailed operations popup.

> A :guilabel:`Traceability` smart button will appear upon validating the delivery order. Click the
> :guilabel:`Traceability` smart button to see the updated :guilabel:`Traceability Report`, which

Reviewer: Remove redundancy
```suggestion
A :guilabel:`Traceability` smart button will appear upon validating the delivery order. Click it to see the updated :guilabel:`Traceability Report`, which
```

> A :guilabel:`Traceability` smart button will appear upon validating the delivery order. Click the
> :guilabel:`Traceability` smart button to see the updated :guilabel:`Traceability Report`, which
> includes: a :guilabel:`Reference` document; the :guilabel:`Product` being traced; the
> :guilabel:`Lot/Serial #` assigned; and the :guilabel:`Reference` receipt from the previous purchase
> order (if any of the product quantities shared a serial number assigned during receipt of that
> :abbr:`PO (Purchase Order)`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Upon validating the delivery order a :guilabel:`Traceability` smart button appears. Click the :guilabel:`Traceability` smart button to see the updated :guilabel:`Traceability Report`, which includes: a :guilabel:`Reference` document, the :guilabel:`Product` being traced, the :guilabel:`Date`, and the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial #` assigned.

The :guilabel:`Traceability Report` can also include a :guilabel:`Reference` receipt from the previous purchase order, if any of the product quantities shared a serial number assigned during receipt of that specific :abbr:`PO (Purchase Order)`.
```

Manage serial numbers for different operations types
====================================================

> By default in Odoo, the creation of new serial numbers is only allowed upon *receiving* products
> from a purchase order. *Existing* serial numbers cannot be used. For sales orders, the opposite is

Reviewer: Rephrase
```suggestion
By default, Odoo only allows the creation of new serial numbers upon *receiving* products
from a purchase order. *Existing* serial numbers cannot be used. For sales orders, the opposite is
```

true: new serial numbers cannot be created on the delivery order, only existing serial numbers can
be used.

> To change the ability to use new or existing serial numbers on any operation type, go to

Reviewer: Word choice
```suggestion
To enable the ability to use new or existing serial numbers on any operation type, go to
```

> To change the ability to use new or existing serial numbers on any operation type, go to
> :menuselection:`Inventory --> Configuration --> Operations Types`, and select the desired
> :guilabel:`Operation Type`. For :guilabel:`Receipts`, the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To change the ability to use new (or existing) serial numbers on any operation type, go to
:menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Operations Types`, and select the desired
:guilabel:`Operation Type`. 

For the :guilabel:`Receipts` operation type, found on the :guilabel:`Operations Types` page, the...
```

> :guilabel:`Operation Type`. For :guilabel:`Receipts`, the
> :guilabel:`Use Existing Lots/Serial Numbers` option can be enabled by clicking :guilabel:`Edit` and
> then clicking the :guilabel:`checkbox`. For :guilabel:`Delivery Orders`, the
> :guilabel:`Create New Lots/Serial Numbers` option can be enabled by clicking :guilabel:`Edit` and
> clicking the :guilabel:`checkbox`. For any changes made, be sure to :guilabel:`Save`.

Reviewer: Rephrase
```suggestion
:guilabel:`Operation Type`. For :guilabel:`Receipts`, click :guilabel:`Edit` and enable the :guilabel:`Use Existing Lots/Serial Numbers` checkbox. For :guilabel:`Delivery Orders`, click :guilabel:`Edit` and enable the :guilabel:`Create New Lots/Serial Numbers` checkbox. For any changes made, be sure to :guilabel:`Save`.
```

> :guilabel:`Use Existing Lots/Serial Numbers` option can be enabled by clicking :guilabel:`Edit` and
> then clicking the :guilabel:`checkbox`. For :guilabel:`Delivery Orders`, the
> :guilabel:`Create New Lots/Serial Numbers` option can be enabled by clicking :guilabel:`Edit` and
> clicking the :guilabel:`checkbox`. For any changes made, be sure to :guilabel:`Save`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Use Existing Lots/Serial Numbers` option can be enabled, by selecting :guilabel:`Receipts` from the :guilabel:`Operations Types` page, clicking :guilabel:`Edit`, and then clicking the checkbox beside :guilabel:`Use Existing Lots/Serial Numbers` option (in the :guilabel:`Traceability` section). Lastly, click the :guilabel:`Save` button to save the changes.

For the :guilabel:`Delivery Orders` operation type, located on the :guilabel:`Operations Types` page, the :guilabel:`Create New Lots/Serial Numbers` option can be enabled, by selecting :guilabel:`Delivery Orders` from the :guilabel:`Operations Types` page, clicking :guilabel:`Edit`, and clicking the checkbox beside the :guilabel:`Create New Lots/Serial Numbers` option (in the :guilabel:`Traceability` section). Be sure to click :guilabel:`Save` to save changes.
```

.. image:: serial_numbers/serial-numbers-operations-types.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enabled traceability setting in operations type form.

Serial number traceability
==========================

> Manufacturers and companies can refer to the traceability reports to see the entire lifecycle of a
> product: where (and when) it came from; where it was stored; and who (and when) it went to.

Reviewer: Rephrase
```suggestion
Manufacturers and companies can refer to the traceability reports to see the entire lifecycle of a
product: where it came from; where it was stored; who it went to; and when each of these events took place.
```

> product: where (and when) it came from; where it was stored; and who (and when) it went to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
product: where (and when) it came from, where it was stored, and who (and when) it went to.
```

> To see the full traceability of a product or group by serial numbers, go to
> :menuselection:`Inventory --> Products --> Lots/Serial Numbers.` From here, products with serial
> numbers assigned to them will be listed by default, and can be expanded to show the serial numbers
> those products have assigned to them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To see the full traceability of a product, or group by serial numbers, go to
:menuselection:`Inventory app --> Products --> Lots/Serial Numbers.` Doing so reveals the :guilabel:`Lots/Serial Numbers` page.

From here, products with serial numbers assigned to them will be listed by default, and can be expanded to show the serial numbers those products have assigned to them.
```

> To group by serial numbers (or lots), first remove any :guilabel:`Filters` in the
> :guilabel:`Search bar`. Then, click :guilabel:`Group By`, click :guilabel:`Add Custom Group`, and

Reviewer: Fix gui tags
```suggestion
To group by serial numbers (or lots), begin by removing any filters in the
:guilabel:`Search...` bar. Then, click :guilabel:`Group By`, click :guilabel:`Add Custom Group`, and
```

> :guilabel:`Search bar`. Then, click :guilabel:`Group By`, click :guilabel:`Add Custom Group`, and
> click the :guilabel:`drop-down` menu to select :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`. Click

Reviewer: Group gui labels into a menuselection
```suggestion
:guilabel:`Search bar`. Then, click :menuselection:`Group By --> Add Custom Group`, and
select :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` from the drop-down. Click
```

> click the :guilabel:`drop-down` menu to select :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`. Click

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
click the drop-down menu to select :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`. Click
```

> :guilabel:`Apply`. All existing serial numbers and lots are now displayed and can be expanded to
> show all quantities of products with that assigned number. For unique serial numbers that are not

Reviewer: Rephrase
```suggestion
:guilabel:`Apply`. All existing serial and lot numbers will now be displayed. Click on a number to expand it and show all products to which it has been assigned. For unique serial numbers that are not
```

> To group by serial numbers (or lots), first remove any :guilabel:`Filters` in the
> :guilabel:`Search bar`. Then, click :guilabel:`Group By`, click :guilabel:`Add Custom Group`, and
> click the :guilabel:`drop-down` menu to select :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`. Click
> :guilabel:`Apply`. All existing serial numbers and lots are now displayed and can be expanded to
> show all quantities of products with that assigned number. For unique serial numbers that are not
> reused, there should be just one product per serial number.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To group by serial numbers (or lots), first remove any default filters from the search bar in the upper-right corner. Then, click :guilabel:`Group By`, and select :guilabel:`Add Custom Group`, which reveals a mini drop-down menu. From this mini drop-down menu, select :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`, and click :guilabel:`Apply`. 

Doing so reveals all existing serial numbers and lots, and can be expanded to show all quantities of products with that assigned number. For unique serial numbers that are not reused, there should be just one product per serial number.
```

.. image:: serial_numbers/serial-numbers-reporting-page.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Serial numbers reporting page with drop-down lists.

.. note::
    For additional information regarding an individual serial number (or lot number), click the

>     line item for the serial number. From the :guilabel:`Serial Number` form, click the
>     :guilabel:`Location` and :guilabel:`Traceability` smart buttons to see all stock on-hand using
>     that serial number, and any operations made using that serial number.

Reviewer: Rephrase and fix indentation
```suggestion
   line item for the serial number. From the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` form, click the
   :guilabel:`Location` and :guilabel:`Traceability` smart buttons to see all stock on-hand that has been 
   assigned that serial number, as well as any operations it was a part of.
```

>     For additional information regarding an individual serial number (or lot number), click the
>     line item for the serial number. From the :guilabel:`Serial Number` form, click the
>     :guilabel:`Location` and :guilabel:`Traceability` smart buttons to see all stock on-hand using
>     that serial number, and any operations made using that serial number.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    For additional information regarding an individual serial number (or lot number), click the
    line item for the desired serial number to reveal that specific serial number's :guilabel:`Serial Number` form. From 
    the :guilabel:`Serial Number` form, click the :guilabel:`Location` and :guilabel:`Traceability` smart buttons to see all 
    stock on-hand using that serial number, and any operations made using that serial number.
    
    [insert screenshot of a typical Serial Number form - highlighting those specific smart button options with red boxes]
```

====================================
Use serial numbers to track products
====================================

*Serial Numbers* are one of the two ways to identify and track products in Odoo. A serial number

> is a unique identifier assigned incrementally (or sequentially) to an item or product, so as to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
is a unique identifier assigned incrementally (or sequentially) to an item or product, used
```

> identify it in order to distinguish it from other items and products.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
to distinguish it from other items and products.
```

> Serial numbers can consist of many different types of characters: they can be strictly numerical;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Serial numbers can consist of many different types of characters: they can be strictly numerical,
```

> they can contain letters and other typographical symbols; and they might even consist entirely of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
they can contain letters and other typographical symbols, and they might even consist entirely of
```

> character string. The goal of assigning serial numbers to individual products is to make sure that

Reviewer 3: > they might even consist entirely of character string.

I don't know what this is supposed to mean.

Author: Haha

every item's history is identifiable when it travels through the supply chain. This can be
especially useful for manufacturers that provide after-sales services to products that they sell
and deliver.

.. seealso::
    - :doc:`lots`

Configuration
=============

> To track products using *Serial Numbers*, the :guilabel:`Lots & Serial Numbers` feature must be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To track products using *serial numbers*, the :guilabel:`Lots & Serial Numbers` feature must be
```

enabled. To enable this, go to :menuselection:`Inventory --> Configuration --> Settings`, scroll
down to the :guilabel:`Traceability` section, and click the box next to
:guilabel:`Lots & Serial Numbers`. :guilabel:`Save` changes.

.. image:: serial_numbers/serial-numbers-enabled-setting.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enabled lots and serial numbers setting.

Track products by serial number
===============================

Once the :guilabel:`Lots & Serial Numbers` setting has been activated, individual products can now
be configured to be tracked using serial numbers. To do this, go to :menuselection:`Inventory -->
Products --> Products`, and choose a product. Once on the product form, click the
:guilabel:`Inventory` tab.

To track this product using serial numbers, click :guilabel:`Edit`, and under the
:guilabel:`Traceability` section, click :guilabel:`By Unique Serial Number`. :guilabel:`Save`
changes. Existing or new serial numbers can now be assigned to newly-received or manufactured

> batches of this product.

Reviewer 3: Will serial numbers be automatically assigned to newly created products if they have "by unique serial number" enabled?

    recent number, it can be edited and changed to be whatever number is desired by clicking the
    line under the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` field and changing the generated number.

Once the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` is generated, click the :guilabel:`drop-down` next to
:guilabel:`Product`, and select the product that this new number will be assigned to.
:guilabel:`Save` changes.

.. image:: serial_numbers/serial-numbers-new-serial-number.png
   :align: center
   :alt: New serial number created for existing product stock.

After the new serial number has been created and assigned to the desired product, navigate back to
the product form by going to :menuselection:`Products --> Products`, and selecting the product the
new serial number was just assigned to. Click the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Numbers` smart button to
see the new serial number.

Manage serial numbers for shipping and receiving
================================================

Manage serial numbers on receipts
---------------------------------

Assigning serial numbers to *incoming* goods can be done directly from the purchase order. To

> create a purchase order, go to the :guilabel:`Purchase` app, and click :guilabel:`Create` to create

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
create a purchase order, go to the :menuselection:`Purchase app --> Create` to create
```

> a new :abbr:`RFQ (Request for Quotation)`. Then, fill out the information by adding a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a new Request for Quotation (RFQ). Then, fill out the information by adding a
```
I would spell it out once before abbreviating it

:guilabel:`Vendor`, and by adding products to the :guilabel:`Product` lines by clicking
:guilabel:`Add a product`. Choose the desired quantity to order by changing the number in the

> :guilabel:`Quantity` column.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Quantity` column. Click :guilabel:`Confirm Order`. This will convert the :abbr:`RFQ (Request for Quotation)` to a :guilabel:`Purchase Order`.
```

> Once the :abbr:`RFQ (Request for Quotation)` has been filled out, click :guilabel:`Confirm Order`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> When the :abbr:`RFQ (Request for Quotation)` is confirmed, it will become a purchase order, and a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> :guilabel:`Receipt` smart button will appear. Click the :guilabel:`Receipt` smart button to be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Click the :guilabel:`Receipt` smart button at the top of the :guilabel :`Purchase Order` to be
```

> taken to the warehouse receipt form.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
taken to the :guilabel:`Warehouse Receipt Form`.
```

.. note::
    Clicking :guilabel:`Validate` before assigning a serial number to the ordered product

>     quantities will cause a :guilabel:`User Error` popup to appear. The popup prompts entry of a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    quantities will cause a :guilabel:`User Error` popup to appear. The popup requires entry of a
```

    reused or duplicated, and improves traceability reporting.

Once all product quantities have been assigned a serial number, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to close
the popup, and click :guilabel:`Validate`. A :guilabel:`Traceability` smart button will appear upon
validating the receipt. Click the :guilabel:`Traceability` smart button to see the updated
:guilabel:`Traceability Report`, which includes: a :guilabel:`Reference` document; the
:guilabel:`Product` being traced; the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial #`; and more.

Manage serial numbers on delivery orders
----------------------------------------

Assigning serial numbers to *outgoing* goods can be done directly from the sales order. To create a
sales order, go to the :guilabel:`Sales` app, and click :guilabel:`Create` to create a new
quotation. Then, fill out the information by adding a :guilabel:`Customer`, and by adding products
to the :guilabel:`Product` lines by clicking :guilabel:`Add a product`. Choose the desired quantity
to sell by changing the number in the :guilabel:`Quantity` column.

Once the quotation has been filled out, click :guilabel:`Confirm`. When the quotation is confirmed,

> it will become a sales order, and a :guilabel:`Delivery` smart button will appear. Click the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
it will become a :guilabel:`Sales Order`, and a :guilabel:`Delivery` smart button will appear. Click the
```

number, click the :guilabel:`drop-down` under :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`, and choose (or type)
the desired serial number. Then, mark the :guilabel:`Done` quantities, and click
:guilabel:`Confirm` to close the popup. Finally, click :guilabel:`Validate` to deliver the products.

.. image:: serial_numbers/serial-numbers-detailed-operations-popup.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Serial numbers listed in detailed operations popup.

A :guilabel:`Traceability` smart button will appear upon validating the delivery order. Click the
:guilabel:`Traceability` smart button to see the updated :guilabel:`Traceability Report`, which
includes: a :guilabel:`Reference` document; the :guilabel:`Product` being traced; the
:guilabel:`Lot/Serial #` assigned; and the :guilabel:`Reference` receipt from the previous purchase
order (if any of the product quantities shared a serial number assigned during receipt of that
:abbr:`PO (purchase order)`).

Manage serial numbers for different operations types
====================================================

By default in Odoo, the creation of new serial numbers is only allowed upon *receiving* products

> from a purchase order. Also by default, using *existing* serial numbers isn't allowed upon receipt.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
from a purchase order. *Existing* serial numbers cannot be used.
```

> For sales orders, it is the opposite: new serial numbers cannot be created on the delivery order,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For sales orders, the opposite is true: new serial numbers cannot be created on the delivery order,
```

> but existing serial numbers can be used.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
only existing serial numbers can be used.
```

To change the ability to use new or existing serial numbers on any operation type, go to
:menuselection:`Inventory --> Configuration --> Operations Types`, and select the desired

> :guilabel:`Operation Type`. For :guilabel:`Receipts`, the

Reviewer 3: Check line break here, looks like it could fit more one one line before break

:guilabel:`Use Existing Lots/Serial Numbers` option can be enabled by clicking :guilabel:`Edit` and
then clicking the :guilabel:`checkbox`. For :guilabel:`Delivery Orders`, the
:guilabel:`Create New Lots/Serial Numbers` option can be enabled by clicking :guilabel:`Edit` and
clicking the :guilabel:`checkbox`. For any changes made, be sure to :guilabel:`Save`.

.. image:: serial_numbers/serial-numbers-operations-types.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enabled traceability setting in operations type form.

Serial number traceability
==========================

> The benefit of using serial numbers (or lots) to track products is that it offers end-to-end

Reviewer 3: Instead of describing the benefits of serial numbers overall, this can be one sentence explaining the traceability report. "The traceability report shows x, y, and z".

manufacturers that provide after-sales services to products that they sell and deliver.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/management/lots_serial_numbers/lots`

Enable lots & serial numbers
============================

To track products using serial numbers, the :guilabel:`Lots & Serial Numbers` feature must be
enabled. To enable this, go to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Settings`, scroll
down to the :guilabel:`Traceability` section, and click the box next to :guilabel:`Lots & Serial
Numbers`. Remember to click the :guilabel:`Save` button to save changes.

.. image:: serial_numbers/serial-numbers-enabled-setting.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enabled lots and serial numbers setting.

Configure serial number tracking on products
============================================

Once the :guilabel:`Lots & Serial Numbers` setting has been activated, individual products can now
be tracked using serial numbers. To configure this, go to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Products
--> Products`, and choose a desired product to track.

Once on the product form, click :guilabel:`Edit`, and click the :guilabel:`Inventory` tab.

> To track this product using serial numbers, scroll to the :guilabel:`Traceability` section (in the
> :guilabel:`Inventory` tab), select the :guilabel:`By Unique Serial Number` option, and click
> :guilabel:`Save` to save the changes. Existing or new serial numbers can now be selected and
> assigned to newly-received or manufactured batches of this product.

Reviewer 4: Can be more succinct here. We've said repeatedly to this point "in order to track using serial numbers" so just say what to do now.

```suggestion
Once on the product form, click :guilabel:`Edit`, navigate to the :guilabel:`Inventory` tab and
scroll to the :guilabel:`Traceability` section. Then, select the :guilabel:`By Unique Serial Number`
option, and :guilabel:`Save` the changes. Existing or new serial numbers can now be selected and
assigned to newly-received or manufactured batches of this product.
```

.. image:: serial_numbers/serial-numbers-product-tracking.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enabled serial number tracking on product form.

> .. note::
>    If a product doesn't have a serial number assigned to it, a user error pop-up window will appear.
>    The error message states that the product(s) in stock have no lot/serial number. However, a
>    lot/serial number can be assigned to the product by making an inventory adjustment.

Reviewer 4: Think this fits better as a warning.
Would also link inv adj doc here.
```suggestion
.. warning::
   If a product doesn't have a serial number assigned to it, a user error pop-up window will appear.
   The error message states that the product(s) in stock have no lot/serial number. However, a
   lot/serial number can be assigned to the product by making an :doc:`inventory adjustment
   </applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/management/inventory_adjustments/count_products.html`.
```

numbers are assigned directly on the purchase order form. For outgoing goods, lot numbers are
assigned directly on the sales order form.

Manage serial numbers on receipts
---------------------------------

Assigning serial numbers to **incoming** goods can be done directly from the purchase order (PO).

To create a :abbr:`PO (purchase order)`, go to the :menuselection:`Purchase app --> Create`. Doing
so reveals a new, blank request for quotation (RFQ) form.

On this :abbr:`RFQ (request for quotation)` form, fill out the necessary information, by adding a
:guilabel:`Vendor`, and by adding the desired products to the :guilabel:`Product` lines, by clicking
:guilabel:`Add a product`, under the :guilabel:`Products` tab.

Choose the desired quantity of the product to order, by changing the number in the
:guilabel:`Quantity` column.

When the necessary configurations are complete, click :guilabel:`Confirm Order`. This will convert
the :abbr:`RFQ (request for quotation)` to a purchase order.

Then, click the :guilabel:`Receipt` smart button to be taken to the warehouse receipt form page for
that specific :abbr:`PO (purchase order)`.

> .. note::

Reviewer 4: Think this serves better as a warning too
```suggestion
.. warning::
```

   Clicking :guilabel:`Validate` before assigning a serial number to the ordered product quantities
   will cause a :guilabel:`User Error` pop-up to appear. The pop-up requires entry of a lot or
   serial number for the ordered products. The :abbr:`RFQ (request for quotation)` **cannot** be
   validated without a serial number being assigned.

.. image:: serial_numbers/serial-numbers-user-error-popup.png
   :align: center
   :alt: User error popup prompting serial number entry.

From here, click the :guilabel:`Additional Options` menu, represented by a :guilabel:`hamburger
(four horizontal lines)` icon, located to the right of the :guilabel:`Unit of Measure` column in the
:guilabel:`Operations` tab. Clicking that icon reveals a :guilabel:`Detailed Operations` pop-up.

In this pop-up, configure a number of different fields, including the assignation of a serial number
(or serial numbers) under the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number Name` column, located at the bottom of
the pop-up.

There are three ways to do this: manually assigning serial numbers, automatically assigning serial

> numbers, and copy/pasting serial numbers from an Excel file.

Reviewer 4: does it *have* to be an *Excel* file?
If so we should italicize this since it's an MS product name.
If not, we can simply say "spreadsheet"

matching the ordered quantity of products.

.. image:: serial_numbers/serial-numbers-auto-assign-sn.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Automatic serial number assignment in detailed operations popup.

Copy/paste serial numbers from an Excel file
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To copy and paste serial numbers from an existing *Excel* file, first populate an *Excel*
spreadsheet with all of the serial numbers received from the supplier (or manually chosen upon
receipt). Then, copy and paste them in the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number Name` column. Odoo will
automatically create the necessary number of lines based on the amount of numbers pasted in the
column.

From here, the :guilabel:`To` locations and :guilabel:`Done` quantities can be manually entered in
each of the serial number lines.

.. image:: serial_numbers/serial-numbers-excel-spreadsheet.png
   :align: center
   :alt: List of serial numbers copied in Excel spreadsheet.

.. tip::
   For purchase orders that include large quantities of products to receive, the best method of
   serial number assignment is to automatically assign serial numbers using the :guilabel:`Assign

>    Serial Numbers` button. This prevents any serial numbers from being reused or duplicated, and

Reviewer 4: where is this button located?
on the PO?

:guilabel:`Use Existing Lots/Serial Numbers` option can be enabled, by selecting
:guilabel:`Receipts` from the :guilabel:`Operations Types` page, clicking :guilabel:`Edit`, and then
clicking the checkbox beside the :guilabel:`Use Existing Lots/Serial Numbers` option (in the
:guilabel:`Traceability` section). Lastly, click the :guilabel:`Save` button to save the changes.

For the :guilabel:`Delivery Orders` operation type, located on the :guilabel:`Operations Types`
page, the :guilabel:`Create New Lots/Serial Numbers` option can be enabled, by selecting
:guilabel:`Delivery Orders` from the :guilabel:`Operations Types` page, clicking :guilabel:`Edit`,
and clicking the checkbox beside the :guilabel:`Create New Lots/Serial Numbers` option (in the
:guilabel:`Traceability` section). Be sure to click :guilabel:`Save` to save changes.

.. image:: serial_numbers/serial-numbers-operations-types.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enabled traceability setting in operations type form.

Serial number traceability
==========================

Manufacturers and companies can refer to the traceability reports to see the entire lifecycle of a

> product: where (and when) it came from, where it was stored, and who (and when) it went to.

Reviewer 4: grammar
```suggestion
product: where it came from (and when), where it was stored, and who it went to.
```

To see the full traceability of a product, or group by serial numbers, go to
:menuselection:`Inventory app --> Products --> Lots/Serial Numbers`. Doing so reveals the

> :guilabel:`Lots/Serial Numbers` page.

Reviewer 4: They're not pages, they're *dashboards* 😉 
```suggestion
:guilabel:`Lots/Serial Numbers` dashboard.
```

> From here, products with serial numbers assigned to them will be listed by default, and can be
> expanded to show the serial numbers those products have assigned to them.

Reviewer 4: Grammar/wording
```suggestion
From here, products with serial numbers assigned to them will be listed by default, and can be
expanded to show what serial numbers have been specifically assigned to them.
```

On this :abbr:`RFQ (request for quotation)` form, fill out the necessary information, by adding a
:guilabel:`Vendor`, and by adding the desired products to the :guilabel:`Product` lines, by clicking
:guilabel:`Add a product`, under the :guilabel:`Products` tab.

Choose the desired quantity of the product to order, by changing the number in the
:guilabel:`Quantity` column.

When the necessary configurations are complete, click :guilabel:`Confirm Order`. This will convert
the :abbr:`RFQ (request for quotation)` to a purchase order.

Then, click the :guilabel:`Receipt` smart button to be taken to the warehouse receipt form page for
that specific :abbr:`PO (purchase order)`.

.. note::
   Clicking :guilabel:`Validate` before assigning a serial number to the ordered product quantities
   will cause a :guilabel:`User Error` pop-up to appear. The pop-up requires entry of a lot or
   serial number for the ordered products. The :abbr:`RFQ (request for quotation)` **cannot** be
   validated without a serial number being assigned.

.. image:: serial_numbers/serial-numbers-user-error-popup.png
   :align: center
   :alt: User error popup prompting serial number entry.

> From here, click the :guilabel:`Additional Options` menu, represented by a `hamburger` icon (four
> horizontal lines, located to the right of the :guilabel:`Unit of Measure` column in the

Reviewer 5: Icon formatting - It looks like my previous suggestion may not have formatted correctly in the GitHub suggestion - my appologies, this is the formatting I was proposing:
```suggestion
From here, click the :guilabel:`Additional Options` menu, represented by a :guilabel:`hamburger
(four horizontal lines)` icon, located to the right of the :guilabel:`Unit of Measure` column in the
```

   :align: center
   :alt: Automatic serial number assignment in detailed operations popup.

Copy/paste serial numbers from an Excel file
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To copy and paste serial numbers from an existing *Excel* file, first populate an *Excel*
spreadsheet with all of the serial numbers received from the supplier (or manually chosen upon
receipt). Then, copy and paste them in the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number Name` column. Odoo will
automatically create the necessary number of lines based on the amount of numbers pasted in the
column.

From here, the :guilabel:`To` locations and :guilabel:`Done` quantities can be manually entered in
each of the serial number lines.

.. image:: serial_numbers/serial-numbers-excel-spreadsheet.png
   :align: center
   :alt: List of serial numbers copied in Excel spreadsheet.

.. tip::
   For purchase orders that include large quantities of products to receive, the best method of
   serial number assignment is to automatically assign serial numbers using the :guilabel:`Assign
   Serial Numbers` button. This prevents any serial numbers from being reused or duplicated, and
   improves traceability reporting.

> 
> Once all product quantities have been assigned a serial number, click the :guilabel:`Confirm` button
> to close the pop-up. Then, click :guilabel:`Validate`.
> 
> A :guilabel:`Traceability` smart button appears upon validating the receipt. Click the
> :guilabel:`Traceability` smart button to see the updated :guilabel:`Traceability Report`, which
> includes: a :guilabel:`Reference` document, the :guilabel:`Product` being traced, the
> :guilabel:`Lot/Serial #`, and more.

Reviewer 5: Remove duplicate paragraphs
```suggestion
```

:guilabel:`Product` being traced, the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial #`, and more.

Manage serial numbers on delivery orders
----------------------------------------

Assigning serial numbers to **outgoing** goods can be done directly from the sales order (SO).

To create an :abbr:`SO (sales order)`, navigate to the :menuselection:`Sales` app, and click the
:guilabel:`Create` button. Doing so reveals a new, blank quotation form. On this blank quotation
form, fill out the necessary information, by adding a :guilabel:`Customer`, and adding products to
the :guilabel:`Product` lines (in the :guilabel:`Order Lines` tab), by clicking :guilabel:`Add a
product`.

Then, choose the desired quantity to sell by changing the number in the :guilabel:`Quantity` column.

Once the quotation has been filled out, click the :guilabel:`Confirm` button to confirm the
quotation. When the quotation is confirmed, the quotation becomes an :abbr:`SO (sales order)`, and a
:guilabel:`Delivery` smart button appears.

Click the :guilabel:`Delivery` smart button to view the warehouse receipt form for that specific
:abbr:`SO (sales order)`.

> From here, click the :guilabel:`Additional Options` menu, represented by a `hamburger` icon (four
> horizontal lines, located to the right of the :guilabel:`Unit of Measure` column in the

Reviewer 5: Icon formatting again :)
```suggestion
From here, click the :guilabel:`Additional Options` menu, represented by a :guilabel:`hamburger
(four horizontal lines)` icon, located to the right of the :guilabel:`Unit of Measure` column in the
```

On this :abbr:`RFQ (request for quotation)` form, fill out the necessary information, by adding a
:guilabel:`Vendor`, and by adding the desired products to the :guilabel:`Product` lines, by
clicking :guilabel:`Add a product`, under the :guilabel:`Products` tab.

Choose the desired quantity of the product to order, by changing the number in the
:guilabel:`Quantity` column.

When the necessary configurations are complete, click :guilabel:`Confirm Order`. This will convert
the :abbr:`RFQ (request for quotation)` to a purchase order.

Then, click the :guilabel:`Receipt` smart button to be taken to the warehouse receipt form page for
that specific :abbr:`PO (purchase order)`.

.. note::
   Clicking :guilabel:`Validate` before assigning a serial number to the ordered product quantities
   will cause a :guilabel:`User Error` pop-up to appear. The pop-up requires entry of a lot or
   serial number for the ordered products. The :abbr:`RFQ (request for quotation)` **cannot** be
   validated without a serial number being assigned.

.. image:: serial_numbers/serial-numbers-user-error-popup.png
   :align: center
   :alt: User error popup prompting serial number entry.

> From here, click the :guilabel:`Additional Options` menu, represented by a `hamburger` icon (four
> vertical lines, located to the right of the :guilabel:`Unit of Measure` column in the
> :guilabel:`Operations` tab). Clicking that icon reveals a :guilabel:`Detailed Operations` pop-up.

Reviewer 5: There are a couple ways you could format this, either with an icon or not both suggestions are below. I also changed the "four vertical lines" to "four horizontal lines" as hamburgers are horizontal 🍔 is this true on the UI? 
```suggestion
From here, click the :guilabel:`Additional Options` menu, represented by a :guilabel:`≣ (hamburger)`
icon (four horizontal lines, located to the right of the :guilabel:`Unit of Measure` column in the
:guilabel:`Operations` tab). Clicking that icon reveals a :guilabel:`Detailed Operations` pop-up.
```
OR
```suggestion
From here, click the :guilabel:`Additional Options` menu, represented by a `hamburger` icon (four
vertical lines, located to the right of the :guilabel:`Unit of Measure` column in the
:guilabel:`Operations` tab). Clicking that icon reveals a :guilabel:`Detailed Operations` pop-up.
```

appropriate columns.

Repeat this process for the quantity of products shown in the :guilabel:`Demand` field, and until
the :guilabel:`Quantity Done` field displays the correct (matching) number of products processed.

Assign serial numbers automatically
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If a large quantity of products need individual serial numbers assigned to them, Odoo can
automatically generate and assign serial numbers to each of the individual products.

To accomplish this, start with the :guilabel:`First SN` field in the :guilabel:`Detailed
Operations` pop-up window, and type the first serial number in the desired order to be assigned.

Then, in the :guilabel:`Number of SN` field, type the total number of items that need newly
generated unique serial numbers assigned to them.

Finally, click :guilabel:`Assign Serial Numbers`, and a list will populate with new serial numbers
matching the ordered quantity of products.

.. image:: serial_numbers/serial-numbers-auto-assign-sn.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Automatic serial number assignment in detailed operations popup.

Copy/paste serial numbers from an Excel file
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To copy and paste serial numbers from an existing *Excel* file, first populate an *Excel*

Reviewer 5: I don't think we need to italicize Excel, curious on @StraubCreative 's thoughts here 🤔

   improves traceability reporting.

Once all product quantities have been assigned a serial number, click the :guilabel:`Confirm`
button to close the pop-up. Then, click :guilabel:`Validate`.

A :guilabel:`Traceability` smart button appears upon validating the receipt. Click the
:guilabel:`Traceability` smart button to see the updated :guilabel:`Traceability Report`, which
includes: a :guilabel:`Reference` document, the :guilabel:`Product` being traced, the
:guilabel:`Lot/Serial #`, and more.

Once all product quantities have been assigned a serial number, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to close
the popup, and click :guilabel:`Validate`. A :guilabel:`Traceability` smart button will appear upon
validating the receipt. Click the :guilabel:`Traceability` smart button to see the updated
:guilabel:`Traceability Report`, which includes: a :guilabel:`Reference` document, the
:guilabel:`Product` being traced, the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial #`, and more.

Manage serial numbers on delivery orders
----------------------------------------

Assigning serial numbers to **outgoing** goods can be done directly from the sales order (SO).

> To create an :abbr:`SO (sales order)`, navigate to the *Sales* app, and click the

Reviewer 5: Use menuselection when directing the user

To group by serial numbers (or lots), first remove any default filters from the search bar in the
upper-right corner. Then, click :guilabel:`Group By`, and select :guilabel:`Add Custom Group`,
which reveals a mini drop-down menu. From this mini drop-down menu, select :guilabel:`Lot/Serial
Number`, and click :guilabel:`Apply`.

Doing so reveals all existing serial numbers and lots, and can be expanded to show all quantities
of products with that assigned number. For unique serial numbers that are not reused, there should
be just one product per serial number.

.. image:: serial_numbers/serial-numbers-reporting-page.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Serial numbers reporting page with drop-down lists.

.. tip::
   For additional information regarding an individual serial number (or lot number), click the line
   item for the serial number to reveal that specific serial number's :guilabel:`Serial Number`
   form. From this form, click the :guilabel:`Location` and :guilabel:`Traceability` smart buttons
   to see all stock on-hand using that serial number, and any operations made using that serial
   number.

.. seealso::

>    :doc:`differences`

Reviewer 5: use global reference path instead of local
